# Background

Using devices such as *Jawbone Up*, *Nike FuelBand*, and *Fitbit* it is
now possible to collect a large amount of data about personal activity
relatively inexpensively. These type of devices are part of the
quantified self movement â€“ a group of enthusiasts who take measurements
about themselves regularly to improve their health, to find patterns in
their behavior, or because they are tech geeks. One thing that people
regularly do is quantify how *much* of a particular activity they do,
but they rarely quantify *how well they do it*. In this project, the
goal is to use data from accelerometers on the belt, forearm, arm, and
dumbell of 6 participants. They were asked to perform barbell lifts
correctly and incorrectly in 5 different ways. More information is
available from the website here:
<http://groupware.les.inf.puc-rio.br/har> (see the section on the Weight
Lifting Exercise Dataset).

# Data

The training data for this project is available here:

<https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/predmachlearn/pml-training.csv>

The test data is available here:

<https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/predmachlearn/pml-testing.csv>

The data for this project comes from this source:
<http://groupware.les.inf.puc-rio.br/har>.

# Project Goals

The goal of the project is to predict the manner in which the 6
participants did the exercise. This is the "classe" variable in the
training set. Machine learning prediction techniques are used to build a
model and cross validate it. This model is then used to predict 20
different test cases. The GitHub repo for the analysis, done using R,
and the report are given in the `Links` section below.

# Links

**Github Page** For Project:
https://github.com/pacificprince/PracticalMLCourseProject

**gh-page branch** for Project Report:
http://pacificprince.github.io/project.html

**gh-page branch** for Project Readme:
http://pacificprince.github.io/PracticalMLCourseProject

